they've done it Intel has finally made a
truly excellent laptop chip it took them
like five or six years but it's finally
here and I think be pleasantly surprised
at how good this chip is so about eight
or nine months ago Intel launched their
series 1 core Ultra devices those things
were already a big step up from their
previous generation but those were just
those were like good very good at best
but this it's a whole new level so uh
the launch device that they've gone with
to Showcase their new chip is the Asus
Zenbook S14 this is a very thin very
light 14-in device and this product
right here is housing the top tier chip
like the highest end chip that they have
for the series 2 it fits in here it's
cooled remarkably well for this device
and let's get into it so this chip and
this laptop it's all about three things
really Energy Efficiency like extreme
Energy Efficiency good C performance and
really good GPU performance this kind of
review unit launch device came with a
120 HZ OLED panel like you don't come
out with this type of screen unless it's
pretty good for games I'm just saying uh
so let's take a look at the chip the
chip in here is the Intel Core Ultra 9
288 V at the time of shooting this I can
only show you Intel's first-party
benchmarks so these are numbers that
they got from their own testing but
there's a few things to note here here
the single core cinebench performance
looks decent but when it comes to
multi-core Performance it does well at
low wattages and it supposedly matches
Apple's M3 product but it does start to
lose ground at higher wates so if you'll
notice the new AMD chip as well as the
previous generation of core Ultra
products those two devices seem to
perform better at that higher wattage
State it's in that low wattage or low
power consumption area that this new
chip really excels and from the
perspective of a laptop reviewer that's
the that's the thing that really matters
like really good regular laptop
performance with awesome battery life
that's what the vast majority of laptop
users are looking for Intel actually
claims this to be the most energy
efficient x86 chip on the planet and
that's what it seems to be at least
based on their first-party Benchmark so
far the other thing of interest is that
the GPU and the gaming performance on
this chip is surprisingly good for
integrated Graphics so these are running
the new Intel Arc 140v gpus and from the
looks of their early benchmarks this is
the most powerful integrated GPU on the
market it supposedly has better gaming
performance than even the new AMD chips
that came out a few weeks ago now it's
also interesting that if you look at
their benchmarks they did it at medium
graphic settings now typically when I do
any kind of gaming benchmarks on thin
and light devices I always go with the
lowest graphic settings I think that's
just how people would typically play
games on a thin and light device but
they went with medium maybe because
they're just so confident that you know
the the GPU performs well but it could
also be that that's where the biggest
gains are like at that Medium setting
maybe at the lower settings it's not as
impressive but regardless very
impressive GPU and I will say that from
the handful of games that I've tested
those numbers are accurate now the
biggest claim that Intel is making with
these new Chips is in regards to battery
life they are claiming some really
monster numbers now in the past Intel's
slides have been questionable at best uh
I would take those numbers with a grain
of salt I think we'll have to see some
proper reviews come in but just for my
very limited testing on this device it
it's very immediately apparent how
energy efficient these systems are like
you can just run them very quietly no
fan noise with very long just kind of
idle State battery life that was
immediately apparent after the first day
of use but if you look at the advertised
battery life from Asus and other
manufacturers it's pretty clear that
these new Intel chips will give you big
battery gains over the previous
generations of product now if you take a
look at the inside the 72w hour battery
takes up a very large portion of the
inside like I don't think they could
have made it much bigger so this is a
very large battery for a 14in device uh
you'll notice that the Wi-Fi 7 card is
baked on the ram like all Intel Core
Ultra products is also baked on uh the
nvme fullsize nvme is removable the
speakers sound good there's four of them
but we'll wait for retail drivers before
we draw any kind of conclusions on them
now the display uses a very nice looking
14in OLED panel and this is a very
bright color accurate and very fast
screen right 120 HZ but I'm surprised I
guess kind of impressed that they went
with this panel on the review units like
if you're trying to Showcase a chip with
really long battery life I would have
thought they would gone with an IPS
panel like just to extend battery life
even more but it's an OLED panel and it
does look really nice and there's also
this gometric grill that you see at the
bottom of the screen like right at the
top of the keyboard deck and this is a
design element that you've seen on the
Zenbook s16 as well it's new for this
year it's like these Grill holes with
even tinier holes on the inside it just
adds this nice design element to the top
of the keyboard it's got a nice keyboard
types pretty fast and it's got nice
white backlighting this gets pretty
bright and uh I think it's just like a
very clean looking keyboard Deck with a
nice uh glass trackpad and then the top
panel has this ceramic polymer on it
I've shown this in other Asus devices
but they call it s aluminum I think it's
just like a ceramic polymer on top of an
aluminum top panel and it gives it this
like Stone like texture like a Polish
Stone finish I really like this like
this has grown on me more and more the
more I use this kind of device but it's
a very nice looking premium feel to it
uh the ports so there's two USB uh C
Thunderbolt 4 on the left side with an
HDMI and then on the right there's just
the single USPA I do wish that there was
a USBC on both sides like I do think
it's one of those things that when it
comes to charging like some people like
to come from the left or the right and
it just now forces you to have to come
from the left which is annoying for
certain desk configurations but the
overall product it is so much more
energy efficient and so much more GPU
capable than what I would have expected
like I had Fairly High Hopes And this
exceeds it this is a very very nice trip
from Intel packaging to a really nice
laptop from ACS okay there you have it
this is their Zenbook S14 with the new
Intel Core Ultra Series 2 chip now if
you'll notice this whole video never
talked about any AI capabilities or AI
features of this new chip or laptop and
it's because I just I don't think we're
at that point where AI really matters
for most people despite all the
marketing and what Intel and basically
every chip manufacturer trying to stuff
down our throats there's just not a lot
of products and or services that really
lean on npus that people actually want
to use on a daily basis so I think if
you're looking at this product I would
just for most people you can ignore all
the AI stuff and just focus on what is
actually useful and good about this
thing very energy efficient awesome GPU
really good CPU and that's to me all
that really matters when it comes to a
laptop right now okay there you have it
awesome chip really good laptop hope you
guys liked this video thumbs if you
liked it subs if you loved it see you
guys next time